# Janurary astroML Blog: Data Visualization and Getting Started
Hi! I'm Anthony, a high school junior interested in data science. After discovering the astroML Python module recently, I wanted to learn how to apply my data science knowledge in the context of astrophysics, and document my journey along the way with monthly blogs about new projects I did. This month, I wanted to just get familar with the data in the module, so I decided to make a simple matplotlib graph of a different dataset every week. The datasets covered a variety of topics and celestrial bodies in astronomy, so I had a tough time choosing what data would be used for my graphs. I eventually decided on:
\n
Week 1: I chose to plot the positions of the densest formation of galaxies in the Sloan Great Wall using the fetch_great_wall function. When comparing my plot to that of official images, I was happy to see that the graphs were similar but I switched the axes. 
Week 2: I saw the fetch_dr7_quasar function had columns for mag_u, mag_g, and mag_r, so I immediately thought to do a u-g vs g-r graph. I should have used less points and made the axes limits larger but overall I think the graph came out accurate. I also tried to do a color gradient for the points so I could have accurate representations of the real colors for each quasar point, but having to combine the color gradients from 2 axes was extremely complex so I kept my graph simple. 
Week 3: For this week, I was interested to see what the difference was between the fetch_sdss_corrected_spectra and fetch_sdss_spectrum so I wanted to make a wavelength vs flux graph for 1 spectra from each function. The corrected spectra dataset proved to be much harder to work with because it required me to use specific functions on the data to reconstruct the spectra. For fetch_sdss_spectrum, I needed to enter specific values of the plate, mean julian date, and fiber so I decided to put in the values for a type C Carbon star that I found the graph for online and the graphs were similar.
Conclusion: Throughout this month, I was able to get a slow introduction into the basics of using the module and the datasets in it. All of the data seems accurate and extremely thorough, which makes me even more excited to pursue more projects in the future. 
